Highest Mark Per Course – Students who have achieved the highest mark in a specific course.
Honor Roll – Students who have achieved an overall average of 80.0% or greater in all of their courses.
Mother Theresa Award – This award is presented to the student who has demonstrated exemplary service of student leadership for the greater by providing assistance or services to those in need.
Joe Hugel Award – This award is presented by the Dufferin-Peel Catholic District School Board to the top Grade 10 student in recognition of academic excellence.
Spirit Award – This award is chosen by staff members and is awarded to the student who exhibits a high degree of Catholic values. The recipient demonstrates through attitudes and behaviours, the attributes of a positive Catholic role model in the St. Marcellinus Community.
Top Student – This award is presented to the top three students with the highest academic average in each Grade.
Governor General^s Award – This award is granted to the graduating student with the highest overall academic average in all Grade11 and Grade 12 courses.
Catholic Leadership Award – This award recognizes a student who strives to celebrate the signs and sacred mystery of God’s presence through word, sacrament, prayer, forgiveness, reflection and moral living.
Spirit of Wellness Award – This award recognizes a student who has made substantial contribution to the spiritual and emotional well-being of the school community.
Archbishop Oscar Romero Award – This award is presented to the graduating student who challenges the status quo for the improvement of the human condition and social justice in his/her community.
Grade 12 Business Leadership Award – The award is presented to the graduating student who has achieved the highest mark in Grade 12 Bussines Leadership: Management Fundamentals University/College Preparation Course.
Thomas J. Reilly Scholarship Award – This award is presented to a graduating student who has demonstrated excellence in the study of Modern Languages.
Lieut. Governor^s Community Award – This award recognizes an exemplary volunteer among the graduating class. It pays tribute to the graduating student for exemplary community contribution or outstanding achievement in volunteer activity. 
Knights of Columbus Award – This award is  granted to a graduating student who excels in academics, participates in St. Francis Xavier Church, and embodies the four principles of the Knights of Columbus: Charity, unity, Fraternity, and Patriotism. 
Edward King Memorial Award – This award is given to a student in the graduating class who demonstrates academic excellence and leadership in the school programs. 
Jim Dutfield Memorial Award – This award is presented to a graduating multi-sport student-athlete who has achieved an overall average of 80% or higher while demonstrating positive spirit, leadership and commitment.  
Jacor Marketing Award for Student Equality – This award is given to the student who best exemplifies student equality by taking measures to prevent bullying and promote inclusion within the student body.